# EventTrackerProject

## Full-Stack Spring/REST/JPA Project for Skill Distillery

## Overview
Welcome to EMET, the Electronic Music Event Tracker! This project will contain a
database of concerts, venues, and performers so that you may plan your next trip!
Along with having a supplied list of upcoming shows, EMET will also allow you, the
user, to add shows, edit existing shows, or even delete shows that have already passed.

## How To Use
  Upon opening EMET you will be greeted with a very basic GUI allowing you to search by
ID, or Show all concerts, as well as an Add concert form. All of these functionalities
are working fine and are fairly straightforward.
  If you decide to show all or search by id
you will see the addition of two new buttons along with a dynamic table generated by
Javascript. The buttons are update and delete. If you select update you will notice
the add concert form is filled in with the data you wish to manipulate. Once you make
your changes simply hit submit update and the database will be manipulated. In order to
view these changes simply hit the button to show all and you will see a refreshed table.
  If you opt to delete a show simply hit the delete button and again hit the show all button
and you will see it is indeed gone!

## REST Endpoints

| Return Type   | Route                 | Functionality                  |
|---------------|-----------------------|--------------------------------|
| `List<Concert>`  |`GET api/concerts`        | Gets all concerts                 |
| `Post`        |`GET api/concerts/{concertId}`   | Gets one concert by id            |
| `Post`        |`POST api/concerts`       | Creates a new concert             |
| `Post`        |`PUT api/concerts/{concertId}`   | Replaces an existing concert by id|
| `void`        |`DELETE api/concerts/{concertId}`| Deletes an existing concert by id |

## Technologies Used
- Java
- RESTful API
- Javascript
- DOM
- AJAX
- JSON

## Lessons Learned(Pos/Neg)
Pos: So far I have implemented the REST Endpoints and this is just the beginning
of where EMET can go. I have learned so much since midterms and I am so excited to
see what I can produce and where this project will go.
UPDATE 1: This weekend we were tasked with implementing CRUD operations into the front end
dynamically using JS. I think I learned quite a bit about function structure as it pertains
to JS and really reinforced materials learned this past week.

Neg: No critique quite yet! Creating the REST Endpoints was smooth sailing. I'm sure
the headaches are yet to come when I want to implement all the cool features I have
floating around my mind for EMET. Looking forward to the challenge!
Update 1: This weekend my biggest challenge was using my front end to update and delete
existing data in my database. I struggled quite a bit with accessing my ID variable and
utilizing them in my JS functions. I also have a slight bug I could not seem to work around..
When a user updates or delete a concert I have a function call to re-display the list yet
for some reason this call is not showing the most current info, therefore the user has to
hit the show all button again to actually see updates or deletes they have done. CRUD works
as intended, but this project definitely could use a bit more refinement. 
